# STOR320
STOR 320 is an introduction to data science course offered to the students at UNC Chapel Hill. This repository includes the explotary data analysis and the final project report that was done as a project for the STOR320 class.

##INTRODUCTION

The National Basketball Association (NBA) is one of the most popular sports leagues across the globe, and most definitely the biggest basketball league at that. Today’s game of basketball continues to evolve every year in terms of gameplay, strategy, and the characteristics of the players themselves. In this project, two questions, in particular, will help evaluate this evolution.

Point differential is arguably the greatest statistic to determine how well a certain lineup performs. After all, the goal of basketball is to outscore your opponent, therefore it is logical to assume that exhibiting a positive point differential plays a pivotal role in determining whether a team wins or loses. With that being said, which variables can accurately predict a lineup’s point differential? To answer this, we will create the best model with the techniques that we have learned to accurately predict a lineup’s point differential. With a reliable model, NBA statisticians, coaches, and general managers would be able to understand what changes are needed within their teams to improve their point differentials and therefore win more games, something that all basketball fans can benefit from.

In addition to point differential, the newly found prevalence of international players in today’s version of the NBA caught our eyes as a group. We wanted to know how have international players become more utilized in recent NBA history. More specifically, are they more present in later-used lineups? Do the most used lineups have international players? The significance of these questions can best be seen in the 21st century, as international players have not only increased their population in the NBA but have also played major roles within their organizations. For example, the past four Most Valuable Player awards have gone to international-born players, forcing scouts to broaden their horizons beyond just the NCAA, but overseas as well. By answering these questions, one can better understand the impact of international players on the NBA, and get an idea of why scouts are as intrigued as they are by top international prospects, such as 19-year-old, Victor Wembanyama, who is the biggest draft prospect since Lebron James himself.

With these two questions answered, we would be able to have a stronger understanding of how a team can improve their point differentials (which could lead to more wins, hence better fan approval) and the level of importance that international-born players have in today’s NBA.
